
A Change in Routine
Um mudança na rotina

Debbie had been gone for over a year, but Matthew just could not find a way
Debbie tinha ido embora há um ano, mas Matthew não conseguiu encontrar um jeito

to break out of his low and lost state of mind. Deep down, he knew that things
de sair de seu baixo e perdido estado mental. Lá no fundo ele sabia que essas coisas

weren't right, but he felt caught in a loop he could not escape. At his annual
não estavam direito, mas ele sentia que foi pego num ciclo que não podia escapar. Em sua

doctor visit, his physician had expressed concern at Matthew’s rapid weight
visita anual ao medico, seu medico havia expressado certa preocupação com Mattews pelo rapido

gain. He advised portion control, fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and
ganho de peso. Ele aconcelhou controlar as porções, frutas, verduras, todos os tipos de grãos, e

exercise, but each suggestion sounded to Matthew even more impossible
exercicios, mas a cada sugestão que ele dava pra Matthew era mais impossivel

than the last. So now, Matthew's life was one hundred percent predictable.
do que a ultima. Então agora, a vida de Mattew era 100% previsivel.

Every day, he followed the same routine: Morning – hit the snooze on the
Todo dia, ele seguia a mesma rotina: Pela manhã - ele acertava o alarme do despertador

alarm five times, barely get out the door to be ten minutes late to work, grab
cinco vezes, mal saia pela porta e já estava 10 minutos atrasado para o trabalho, pegava

a coffee and three donuts from the break room on the way to his desk,
um café e três rosquinhas de uma sala de descanço e caminhada para sua mesa,

answer calls in a bored tone, flipping through his tech support scripts and
respondendo a ligações eu tom entediado, foleando seu chamados de suporte tecnico e

following along thoughtlessly, word-for-word, on autopilot.
seguindo sem pensar, literalmente, ele estava no piloto automatico.

Afternoon – answer calls, order fast food delivery for lunch, eat his oversized
A tarde - respondia ligações, pedia num fast food seu amoço, comia sua porções

portions in the back corner of the breakroom, ignore all coworkers in favor
enormes num canto da sala de descanso, ignorava todos seus colegas de trabalho em

of reading social media feeds, answer more calls, look over at Jolene at the
favor de uma rede social, respondia mais algumas ligaçoes, dava uma olhada para Jolene no

cubicle diagonally in front of him, think about how Jolene would never look
cubiculo diagonalmente em frente do dele, pensava que Jolene jamais olharia

over at him, answer more calls, fill out paperwork about the calls, clock out.
para ele,  respondia mais ligações, preenchia a papelada sobre as ligações, fim de expediente.

Evening – heat up frozen foods, eat dinner, desserts, and snacks in front of
A noite - descongelava a comida, comia seu jantar, sobremesa, e petiscos  em frente da

the TV, fall asleep to its drone and wake up to its sudden explosions of
TV, caiu de sono para acordar de repente com um aumento repentino do

volume, finally haul his bulk off the couch to collapse into bed, sleep until he
volume, finalmente ele arrasta seu corpo do sofá para colapsar na cama, dorme até ele

had to start again the next day. But one morning, a strange occurrence
ter que começar tudo de novo no dia seguinte. Mas em uma manha, um estranho acontecimento

interrupted Matthew's entire routine and set him on a different course. He
interrompeu a rotina de Matthew e a colocou num diferente curso. Ele

arrived at work on a Monday to find a completely empty parking lot. So stuck
chegou no trabalho numa segunda-feira e encontrou o estacionamento complemente vazio. Preso em

in his routine, Matthew didn't even notice the eerie emptiness until he
sua rotina, Matthew não tinha sequer se informado sobre o estranho acontecido, até que ele

trudged to the front door of his office complex, pulled on the handle, and the
marchou até a porta da frente do complexo de escritorios, a puxou, e a porta

door wouldn't budge. It was locked.
nem se quer mexeu. Ela estava trancada.

He jumped from surprise just as obviously as he would have if a person
Ele pulou de surpresa tão obviamente como ele poderia fazer se uma pessoa

popped out from the bushes to frighten him. In disbelief, Matthew yanked on
pulasse de arbustos para assusta-lo. Desacreditado, Matthew puxou com força

the handle three more times. When he gave up and turned around, he
a porta mais tres vezes. Quando ele desistiu e deu a volta, ele

noticed the empty parking lot. He froze in place. Had he entered another
viu o aviso sobre o estacionamento. Ele ficou congelado no lugar. Ele tinha entrado

dimension? Matthew watched a considerable amount of science fiction
em outra dimensão?

television. Still, he recognized that this was implausible in the real world, and

so he checked his watch. It said that it was 8:10 A.M. – his normal report time

for work. He looked at the horizon, slowly turning his head to take in the full

effect of the strangeness of the morning. The sky was the same color it had

been when he arrived at work on Friday. There weren't as many cars

whizzing by as he was used to hearing. Near the dumpster across the lot,

some spilled trash rustled and he could hear it, when ordinarily he wouldn't

have been able to hear such a faint noise over the traffic.

Matthew came to a sudden realization. He looked at his phone. It said 7:10

A.M. He had forgotten to reset his watch and his bedside clock to adjust for

daylight savings time. His phone automatically updated, but he hadn't looked

at it during his typical rush to make it to work. He was an hour early. Matthew

decided to sit in his car until someone came to open the building. Then he'd

make a huge show of being on time for work to make sure his boss noticed.

Walking across the parking lot, he noticed that the rustling trash he'd

spotted earlier was shaking around in a way that couldn't be explained by the

still air. His curiosity piqued, Matthew slowly approached the back. He was

expecting a rat or maybe a raccoon, but the whip-like white tail he found

wagging out of a potato chip bag couldn't belong to either of those rodents.

He slowly pulled the bag off the animal to find a puppy. It had long, thin legs

and soft, floppy ears. It was a male, white with brown markings. Probably a

mutt with some pointer mixed in, Matthew thought, based on the pup's

appearance and the angle of his head. Matthew slowly extended a hand

toward the dog, but the dog wasn't nearly so cautious. He sniffed quickly,

twice, and licked Matthew's hand gleefully, over and over. Matthew

chuckled. It felt odd, but nice, this warmth and joy. He'd forgotten this feeling

since Debbie left. He scooped up the pup, and it transferred the joyful licks

to his face. Matthew said, "I'll call you Kirk." He had decided to keep the

puppy without even thinking about it. "And you're going to make me late for

work, again."

Matthew looked forward to going home to Kirk through the entire work day.

But when he got home, he was not quite so enamored with the pup. Every

trashcan in the apartment was upended and emptied, there were three

puddles and one pile of poop on the floor, the fabric on the arm of the couch

was wet and torn, and two of his wooden kitchen chairs had bite marks on

them. Matthew angrily yelled, "Bad dog! BAD DOG!" Kirk whimpered,

tucking his tail between his back legs and ducking his head, eyes wide and

sorrowful. Matthew shook his head. "That's not fair. How can I be mad at that

face?" He spent the next couple hours cleaning up Kirk's mess. After that, he

made himself a quick sandwich for dinner, feeding Kirk lunchmeat from his

plate, and began to read about caring for a puppy on the Internet. He came

up with a strategy to prevent coming home to this sort of mess every day.

Then, he and Kirk went to the pet store. They bought food, dog bowls, chew

toys, treats, a leash, and a kennel. When they got home, Matthew hooked

Kirk up to the leash and they went for a walk around the neighborhood. Both

human and canine were panting when they got back to the apartment.

Matthew spent the rest of the evening putting Kirk's kennel together and

setting it up for his comfort during the following day. He collapsed into bed

and set his alarm an hour earlier than usual to make sure he'd have time to

walk and feed the pup before he left for work. He realized as he was falling

asleep that he hadn't turned the TV on at all that day. Matthew used all his

previously wasted time to train Kirk – teaching him to stay calmly in his

kennel, training him to sit and stay, making sure he chewed only his own toys.

He walked Kirk every morning to help the pup burn off the energy that he

would otherwise spend being destructive. One day, feeling lighter than he'd

felt since Debbie left, Matthew's walk with Kirk turned into a jog. With Kirk's

toothy grin next to him, it hardly seemed like exercise. Over the weeks and

months, Kirk grew into a sleek, full-grown dog and Matthew slimmed down

to the point that he had to buy a whole new wardrobe. Now, Matthew had a

new routine. In the morning, Kirk woke Matthew with a cold nose to the face

on the alarm's first chime. They jogged the neighborhood together, they ate

breakfast together, and then Matthew gave Kirk a treat and a toy and guided

him to his kennel. Matthew worked all morning, more attentively than he had

in the past. His boss had even mentioned a possible promotion. At lunch,

Matthew ran home to walk Kirk, eating a sandwich or a wrap as they strolled

along.

Matthew returned to making calls for the afternoon, but occasionally took a

quick break to talk with Jolene. She had a photo of a fat beagle tacked to her

cubicle wall, and shortly after getting Kirk, Matthew was able to start a

conversation with her about dogs. They shared stories about their canine

companions, and started to form a friendship. Matthew even thought

sometimes that she might be flirting with him. In the evenings, Matthew still

ate dinner and watched television, but he didn't feel as hungry, and his

portion sizes lessened. He also had to take at least one or two more walks for

Kirk to use the restroom, adding activity to Matthew's formerly sedentary

evenings. And Matthew envisioned soon involving Jolene in some of his

evenings – asking her over for dinner, cooking something she'd find

impressive, and maybe walking their dogs together. Before he found Kirk

scrounging for food in the garbage, none of this would have seemed possible.

Somehow, this one small change had rearranged an entire life. As he settled

in to sleep, Matthew practiced his intended question for the following day:

"So, Jolene, Kirk and I were wondering if you and Patches might join us for

dinner at my place…"



had been gone
tinha ido embora, foi embora

Deep down
profundamente, lá no fundo, no intimo.

concern
preocupação, interesse, solicitudo, problema, conta, apreensão, atenção.

physician
médico, medica, fisico, doutor, farmacêutico.

predictable
previsivel, predizivel, previsibilidade.

barely
mal, quase não, apenas, pouco, dificilmente.

break room
sala de descanso.

flipping through
folhear, passando pelos

scripts
roteiros, programas, escritos.

thoughtlessly
irrefletidamente, levianamente, sem pensar.

word-for-word
literalmente

haul
transportar, levar, puxar, carregar, arrastar

couch
sofá.

eerie
estranho, misterioso, assustador, sinistro.

even
mesmo, até, ainda, sequer, até mesmo, nem sequer.

trudge
marchar, arrastar-se, andar com dificuldade.

budge
cerder, mexer, mover.
